Alerting docs: Update `Alert rules` intro and `Introduction` pages (#84772)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/alerting/fundamentals/_index.md

An [alert rule][alert-rules] consists of one or more queries and expressions that select the data you want to measure. It also contains a condition, which is the threshold that an alert rule must meet or exceed in order to fire.

Add labels to uniquely identify your alert rule and configure alert routing. Labels link alert rules to notification policies, so you can easily manage which policy should handle which alerts and who gets notified.

Once alert rules are created, they go through various states and transitions.

### Alert instances

Each alert rule can produce multiple alert instances (also known as alerts) - one alert instance for each time series. This is exceptionally powerful as it allows us to observe multiple series in a single expression.

```promql
sum by(cpu) (
  rate(node_cpu_seconds_total{mode!="idle"}[1m])
)
```

A rule using the PromQL expression above creates as many alert instances as the amount of CPUs we are observing after the first evaluation, enabling a single rule to report the status of each CPU.

{{< figure src="/static/img/docs/alerting/unified/multi-dimensional-alert.png" caption="Multiple alert instances from a single alert rule" >}}

> [Alert rules are frequently evaluated][alert-rule-evaluation] and updates the state of their alert instances accordingly. Only alert instances that are in a firing or resolved state are routed to notification policies to be handled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Alert rules are frequently evaluated][alert-rule-evaluation] and the state of their alert instances is updated accordingly. Only alert instances that are in a firing or resolved state are routed to notification policies to be handled.
```

### Notification policies

[Notification policies][notification-policies] group alerts and then route them to contact points. They determine when notifications are sent, and how often notifications should be repeated.

Alert instances are matched to notification policies using label matchers. This provides a flexible way to organize and route alerts to different receivers.

> Each policy consists of a set of label matchers (0 or more) that specify which alert instances (identified by their labels) they are or aren’t interested in handling. Notification policies are defined as a tree structure where the root of the notification policy tree is called the Default notification policy, and each policy can have child policies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each policy consists of a set of label matchers (0 or more) that specify which alert instances (identified by their labels) they handle. Notification policies are defined as a tree structure where the root of the notification policy tree is called the **Default notification policy**. Each policy can have child policies.
```

{{< figure src="/media/docs/alerting/notification-routing.png" max-width="750px" caption="Notification policy routing" >}}

### Contact points

[Contact points][contact-points] determine where notifications are sent. For example, you might have a contact point that sends notifications to an email address, to Slack, to an incident management system (IRM) such as Grafana OnCall or Pagerduty, or to a webhook.

Notifications sent from contact points are customizable with notification templates, which can be shared between contact points.

### Silences and mute timings

[Silences][silences] and [mute timings][mute-timings] allow you to pause notifications for specific alerts or even entire notification policies. Use a silence to pause notifications on an ad-hoc basis, such as during a maintenance window; and use mute timings to pause notifications at regular intervals, such as evenings and weekends.

### Architecture

Grafana Alerting is built on the Prometheus model of designing alerting systems.

Prometheus-based alerting systems have two main components:

> - an alert generator that evaluates alert rules and sends firing and resolved alerts to the alert receiver.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- An alert generator that evaluates alert rules and sends firing and resolved alerts to the alert receiver.
```

> - an alert receiver (also known as Alertmanager) that receives the alerts and is responsible for handling them and sending their notifications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- An alert receiver (also known as Alertmanager) that receives the alerts and is responsible for handling them and sending their notifications.
```

Grafana doesn’t use Prometheus as its default alert generator because Grafana Alerting needs to work with many other data sources in addition to Prometheus.

> However, Grafana can also use Prometheus as alert generator and external alertmanagers. For more information about how to use distinct alerting systems, refer to the [Grafana alert rule types][alert-rules].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, Grafana can also use Prometheus as an alert generator as well as external Alertmanagers. For more information about how to use distinct alerting systems, refer to the [Grafana alert rule types][alert-rules].
```
